Lifespan extension drug in development for senior dogs reaches a new milestone | dvm360 --> 

 --> 

 Advertisement

 News | Articles | January 13, 2026 

 Lifespan extension drug in development for senior dogs reaches a new milestone

 Author(s) Kristen Coppock Crossley, MA 

 Fact checked by: Yasmeen Qahwash 

 Loyal’s application for drug approval is another step closer to potential approval through the FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine. 

 Advertisement

 A drug in development for healthy lifespan extension in senior canines has reached a new milestone on the path toward potential FDA approval. The conditional approval application for the drug LOY-002, created by Loyal, has had its target animal safety (TAS) technical section accepted by the federal agency, according to the biotechnology animal health company. 1 
 The drug’s application has now received acceptance for 2 of 3 major technical sections required for market launch, according to Loyal. 1 The FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine previously granted the application a reasonable expectation of effectiveness designation 2 ; its manufacturing section will need to be accepted before conditional approval can be considered.
 “As a veterinarian, what I care about most, especially when it involves preventive care, is safety,” Ellen Ratcliff, DVM, vice president of clinical and veterinary medicine at Loyal, said in a news release. 1 “The FDA’s sign off on this submission is an important vote of confidence in our mission to develop safe and effective lifespan extension drugs for dogs.”
 Loyal anticipates the final major technical section to be reviewed in 2027. 1 Brennen McKenzie, VMD, MSc, MA, director of veterinary medicine for Loyal, said the mechanical section of LOY-002’s application is in progress. “Full approval would follow after completion of the STAY study, which is the pivotal effectiveness trial required to support a future full [new animal drug application] approval,” he said in a dvm360 interview.

 astro-island:empty]:hidden"> 
 Advertisement

 LOY-002 is a prescription daily pill that targets age-related metabolic dysfunction and is designed to improve quality of life in canines 10 years and older, weighing at least 14 lb. 2 “The metabolic dysfunction that all dogs experience as they age is a critical risk factor for many of the health problems that impact senior dogs. By improving metabolic health, we believe LOY-002 will extend not only lifespan but [also] health span—the time that dogs are healthy and still able to enjoy their favorite activities and time with their human family,” McKenzie said.
 The submission for TAS acceptance included evidence from several scientific investigations. “Among these was a safety study conducted at the standard 1-, 3-, and 5-times dose strengths, with no clinically significant adverse events observed at these doses,” McKenzie said. “Safety has been a central focus of LOY-002’s development from the outset. Preventive therapies that are prescribed to otherwise healthy dogs require a very high safety bar, and we are pleased that the FDA agrees that the data support LOY-002’s safety for the proposed conditions of use.”
 Scientific evidence also included the ongoing STAY study, which completed patient enrollment with 1300 dogs at 70 veterinary clinics across the US in July 2025. 1,3 “We evaluated field safety data from 400 dogs enrolled in the STAY study. The FDA then reviewed our submission and determined that LOY-002’s data support the drug's safety for the proposed conditions of use,” McKenzie added.
 “In both the standard safety study and the field data from STAY, a wide range of data were collected. The dogs were closely monitored, including regular examinations and laboratory testing,” he continued. 
 The data submitted to the FDA included information from dogs given LOY-002 for up to 1 year, and patients with a variety of ongoing medical conditions and other treatments commonly seen in senior dogs were included. The agency agreed that these data support the conclusion that LOY-002 is safe for its intended use.
 If LOY-002 is ultimately approved by the FDA, it would be the agency’s first drug approval for lifespan extension in any species, Loyal noted. As it stands, the drug received the first known safety acceptance for a lifespan extension drug from the FDA with TAS support. 1 
 “Since founding Loyal 6 years ago, my goal has always been to get the first drug FDA approved for lifespan extension. This safety acceptance brings us very close to achieving that vision.” Celine Halioua, founder and CEO of Loyal, said in a news release. 1 “We are well on our way to bringing the first dog longevity drugs to market.”

 References 
 Loyal receives FDA acceptance of safety package for senior dog lifespan extension drug. News release. Loyal. January 13, 2026. https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20260113476778/en/Loyal-Receives-FDA-Acceptance-of-Safety-Package-for-Senior-Dog-Lifespan-Extension-Drug 
 Crossley KC. Second drug for canine healthy lifespan extension receives FDA support. dvm360 . February 26, 2025. Accessed January 13, 2026. https://www.dvm360.com/view/second-drug-for-canine-healthy-lifespan-extension-receives-fda-support 
 Crossley KC. Clinical trial for longevity drug meets goal of enrolling 1000 dogs. dvm360 . April 14, 2025. Accessed January 13, 2026. https://www.dvm360.com/view/clinical-trial-for-longevity-drug-meets-goal-of-enrolling-1000-dogs 

 Advertisement

 Related to this article

 View more 

 September 29th, 2026 Fungus-contaminated wound product linked to infections in nearly 100 horses, at least 20 euthanized 
 FDA testing found 5 fungal species, including one known for antifungal resistance, in Neogen Vet HYCOAT, a product labeled as sterile.

 Read more 

 September 23rd, 2026 Laverdia now available for purchase for dogs with lymphoma 
 Verdinexor tablets are now available for dogs with lymphoma after receiving full FDA approval earlier this year, offering an at-home treatment option given twice weekly and showing a longer time to disease progression than the control in a field study.

 Read more 

 October 1st, 2026 Staying calm under pressure 
 A technician’s approach to veterinary trauma

 Read more 

 September 30th, 2026 Veterinary Scene Down Under: Australian Veterinary Association membership grows and New South Wales moves to recognize veterinary technicians 
 dvm360's Australian correspondent Phil Tucak, BSc, BVMS, reports on the success of the new membership model at the Australian Veterinary Association, and reforms to the veterinary regulatory framework in New South Wales.

 Read more 

 September 30th, 2026 Matching relapsed lymphoma treatment to drug-response predictions tied to lower daily costs in dogs 
 A new cost analysis finds that matching relapsed lymphoma treatment to a personalized drug-response test was associated with longer disease control and a lower estimated daily treatment cost in dogs.

 Read more 

 September 30th, 2026 FAQ: Rising rabies exposure calls put PEP decisions back in focus 
 Following World Rabies Day and a CDC health advisory on a 17% rise in exposure-related calls, Rodney E. Rohde, PhD, explains what the increase means, what people should do when they have an animal bite or scratch, and how clinicians should assess risk and administer post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP).

 Read more 

 September 30th, 2026 Saline injection lot recalled after potassium chloride bag found in mislabeled wrap 
 One lot of 0.9% sodium chloride injection may contain bags of concentrated potassium chloride, a mix-up the manufacturer says could cause serious or fatal adverse events.

 Read more 

 September 30th, 2026 Pet Poison Helpline reports rise in Apoquel calls 
 Accidental ingestion, not a drug defect, is behind the increase in calls, according to Pet Poison Helpline.

 Read more 

 Previous slide Next slide 

 Advertisement

 Advertisement

 Trending on dvm360
 1

 Pet Poison Helpline reports rise in Apoquel calls

 2

 Fungus-contaminated wound product linked to infections in nearly 100 horses, at least 20 euthanized

 3

 Veterinary Scene Down Under: Australian Veterinary Association membership grows and New South Wales moves to recognize veterinary technicians

 4

 Researchers document first known cases of Marfan syndrome in domestic cats

 5

 Saline injection lot recalled after potassium chloride bag found in mislabeled wrap