New Drug Could Extend the Lifespans of Giant Dog Breeds 

 Skip to content

 Biology

 New Drug Could Extend the Lifespans of Giant Dog Breeds

 The drug, LOY-001, could be available to the public as soon as 2026.

 By

 Isaac Schultz 

 Published November 28, 2023, 5:15 pm ET

 Reading time 2 minutes

 A Kangal dog in Sivas, Turkey. Photo: Serhat Zafer/Anadolu Agency (Getty Images)

 Read Later 

 Read Later 

 Comments 

 (0)

 The animal pharmaceutical company Loyal announced that the FDA has accepted the development of a drug that could extend the lifespans of large and giant dog breeds.
 The drug is codenamed LOY-001. In a blog post published today, Celia Halioua, the founder and CEO of Loyal, said that the company earned the FDA’s acceptance of the drug. “In regulatory parlance,” Halioua wrote , “we have completed the technical effectiveness portion of our conditional approval application for LOY-001’s use in large dog lifespan extension.”

 Giant dogs are the ones that might make you gawk on the street: Great Danes, Irish wolfhounds, and Anatolian shepherds to name a few. But most of these massive dogs average a very short lifespan—about 9 years for a Great Dane, and just 6 or 7 years for an Irish wolfhound.
 Small dogs can live three times as long as the shortest-lived giant dog breeds, according to the American Kennel Club ; the dogs die mostly from cancer and age-related illnesses, which indicate that larger dogs tend to age faster than their smaller compatriots.

 A Great Dane (left) and a petite French bulldog. Photo: Mark Stewart/Newspix (Getty Images) As previously reported by Gizmodo in our list of unhealthy dog breeds , giant breeds are vulnerable to skeletal problems like hip dysplasia, a deformity that leads to chronic arthritis. (Though the most common cause of death in Irish wolfhounds is cancer, followed by cardiovascular disease.)

 “The extreme phenotypic variety found in dogs is not ‘natural’ — it’s the result of intensive breeding by humans to create dogs that excelled at tasks such as herding, protection, and companionship,” Brennen McKenzie, Loyal’s Director of Veterinary Medicine, said in a press release . “At Loyal, we see the short lifespan of big dogs not as inevitable, but as a genetically-associated disease caused by historical artificial selection, and therefore amenable to targeting and treatment with a drug.”

 According to Halioua’s post, breeding large dogs for their size caused elevated levels of IGF-1, a hormone that promotes cell growth. Though this hormone contributes to the animals’ great size, it also hastens their aging. LOY-001 reduces the levels of IGF-1 in large and giant dog breeds, extending healthy life spans.

 The drug is an injectable that would be administered by a vet every three to six months. Loyal is also developing a pill that would address the same issue, codenamed LOY-003. According to the release , LOY-001 could hit the shelves by 2026, pending FDA approval of data provided to them by Loyal.
 The road to an FDA-approved drug is long, but there’s reason to be optimistic about the currently short lives of big dogs.
 More: Why Purebred Dogs Are Sick, Miserable, and Ugly 

 Share this story

 Copied!

 Sign up for our newsletters

 Subscribe and interact with our community, get up to date with our customised Newsletters and much more.

 Gizmodo 

 io9 

 Earther 

 The Next Interface 

 Subscribe now 

 Leave this field empty if you're human: 

 15,000 VHS Tapes and Counting: Meet the Guys Preserving the Weirdest Parts of the Analog Era

 Latest news

 Oct 1 
 10:10 am 

 Forget Google Nest, Amazon Smart Thermostat Hits Its Lowest Price for Early Prime Day

 Oct 1 
 10:10 am 

 Valve’s Poker Face Around the Steam Deck 2 Is Finally Starting to Crack

 Oct 1 
 10:00 am 

 The Horror Films and Shows You Should Be Streaming in October 2026

 Oct 1 
 9:40 am 

 BLUETTI Elite 30 V2 Portable Power Station Is Nearly Half Off, and Waiting for Prime Day Could Mean Missing Out

 Oct 1 
 9:35 am 

 Elizabeth Banks Is Cloned in ‘DreamQuil’ Trailer

 Oct 1 
 9:25 am 

 Ring Battery Doorbell 2K Crashes 60% to a Record Low on Amazon, Leaving Almost No Margin Behind

 Oct 1 
 9:10 am 

 Amazon Nearly Gives Away This UGREEN 100W USB-C Cable 2-Pack, With Each Cable Costing Next to Nothing

 Oct 1 
 9:00 am 

 Amazon Refreshes Kindle, Kindle Paperwhite, and Kindle Colorsoft E-Readers With Flush Screens

 Show All Latest news

 Latest Reviews

 Oct 1 
 8:30 am 

 Nothing Headphone 1 Pro Review: Honest-to-God S-Tier Headphones

 Sep 30 
 4:00 pm 

 The Best Gadgets of September 2026

 Sep 30 
 2:15 pm 

 GoPro Mission 1 Pro ILS Review: A Bad GoPro and a Worse Camera

 Sep 29 
 11:15 am 

 Apple Watch Ultra 4 Review: Still the Best Health Buddy for Your Wrist

 Sep 28 
 6:30 am 

 Mova LiDAX Pro 800 Review: This Robomower Tried to Mow Me Down

 Sep 27 
 8:30 am 

 iRobot Roomba Max 775 Review: A Respectable Roomba Redux

 Sep 22 
 12:35 pm 

 Sonos Ace Ultra Review: Headphones That Only Hardcore Sonos Fans Could Love

 Sep 21 
 9:00 am 

 M6 Mac mini Review: A Better Tiny Desktop, With or Without AI

 Show All Latest Reviews

 Related Articles

 Your Body Heat Could Power the Next Generation of Wearables

 Thermoelectric generators probably won’t eliminate the charger for your Apple Watch, but for smaller, screenless wearables, the heat constantly escaping from your skin could fundamentally change how we power our devices.

 Gadgets

 John Loeffler 

 Sep 25

 This Gene-Tech Is More Impressive Than the Extinct Dire Wolves It Created. Here’s Why

 Colossal Biosciences brought back 20 key segments of extinct dire wolf DNA into living, breathing, wolf pups—and the tech used to do it could change conservation and paleontology for good.

 Biology

 Matthew Phelan 

 Sep 29

 Scientists Find Microbial Life Could Survive on Saturn’s Icy Moon Enceladus

 Researchers created a mini Enceladus in the lab to see how microscopic life would fare in the moon's ocean.

 Biology

 Passant Rabie 

 Sep 28

 Scientists Found a Deep-Sea ‘Death Pool’ That Vanished. It May Show How Earth’s First Life Survived

 New sediment tests from a research vessel in the Red Sea suggest that primordial deep-sea microbes may offer a glimpse of how life made energy before Earth had oxygen.

 Biology

 Matthew Phelan 

 Sep 25

 This Newly Discovered Sea Spider Is a Parasite With Its Own Parasites

 The Salish Sea contains a rich diversity of sea spider life, recent research shows.

 Biology

 Ed Cara 

 Sep 24

 We Finally Know Where Bats Came From—and Dracula Would Approve

 The very first bats likely emerged 65 million years ago—and now we know where.

 Biology

 Ed Cara 

 Sep 23

 Search 

 Sign up for our newsletters

 Latest

 Tech News

 Artificial Intelligence

 Commerce

 Crime

 Cryptocurrencies

 Culture

 Gadgets

 Internet

 Politics

 Privacy & Security

 Robots

 Social Media

 Sploid

 Tech Policy

 Transportation

 Reviews

 Smartphones

 Laptops

 Headphones

 Gaming

 Home Entertainment & Smart Home

 Other Gadgets

 Accessories & Wearables

 Desktops

 Tablets

 Deals

 Buying Guides

 Science

 Biology

 Health

 Human History

 Physics & Chemistry

 Space & Spaceflight

 Earther

 Climate Change

 Conservation

 Earth Science

 Energy

 Environmental Justice

 io9

 io9 Reviews

 Movies

 Trailers

 Television

 Books & Comics

 Anime

 Toys & Collectibles

 Games

 Corporate Culture

 Theme Parks & Destinations

 Videos 

 Software 

 Best VPN 

 Free VPN 

 Cheap VPN 

 NordVPN Review 

 ExpressVPN Review 

 Watch World Cup 2026 

 Best eSIM 

 Cloud Storage 

 Free Cloud Storage 

 pCloud Review 

 Web Hosting 

 Hostinger Review 

 Best Antivirus 

 Download Hub 

 About Us 

 Other editions 

 Deutsch 

 Español 

 Français 

 Português 

 Jobs 

 Product Review 

 Newsletters 

 Your Privacy Choices 

 Privacy Policy 

 Terms of Use 

 Accessibility 

 Advertising & Licensing 

 𝕏 

 Bookmarks

 Cookies settings