Helping dogs live longer, healthier lives
Our aging thesis
Aging is the most significant modifiable risk factor for 
most degenerative and chronic diseases in adult dogs. 
Targeting the ways dogs age and decline over time 
may be one of the most effective and practical ways for 
veterinarians to increase the healthy lifespan of their 
canine patients.
At Loyal, our approach is to help dogs live longer and 
stay healthier as they age by targeting the underlying 
processes that lead to age-associated disease and 
disability. Our drugs aim to extend lifespan and quality 
of life by reducing the incidence or severity of  
age-related diseases. 
Products in development
We have three lifespan extension drugs in development, 
targeting two molecular pathways.
LOY-002 is intended for dogs age 10 or older and 
weighing at least 14 lb. It aims to extend healthy 
lifespan by mitigating age-associated metabolic 
dysfunction.
LOY-001 and LOY-003 are intended for dogs age 7 
and older and weighing 40 lb or more and target the 
over-expression of IGF-1, a hormone that we believe is 
associated with large dogs’ shorter lifespan relative to 
small dogs. 
Senior dog  
lifespan extension
Large dog  
lifespan extension
Development name LOY-002 LOY-001 LOY-003
Description As dogs age their metabolic 
health declines, leading 
to disease and declining 
quality of life. LOY-002 
is believed to improve 
metabolic health with 
the aim of reducing age-
associated disease and 
extending healthy lifespan.
As a result of selective 
breeding, large dogs produce 
more of the hormone IGF-1 
than required post-maturity. 
This is believed to reduce 
their lifespan relative to 
smaller dogs.
LOY-001 addresses this 
overexpression in adult dogs 
with the aim of reducing 
age-associated diseases and 
extending healthy lifespan. 
LOY-003 targets the same 
IGF-1 overexpression as 
LOY-001. 
Target population Dogs age 10 or older and
weighing at least 14 lb.
Dogs age 7 or older and  
weighing at least 40 lb.
How supplied Prescription daily  
flavored pill Prescription injection Prescription daily pill
Planned launch 2025 2027 2027

Mechanism of action
Disclaimer: because this product is still in development, 
the drug and its exact mechanism of action currently 
necessarily remain confidential. For now, we can only 
discuss our approach in general terms. However, we 
continue to publish our pre-clinical research data, and 
much more detailed information will be made available to 
veterinarians if the drug is approved for use by the FDA.
LOY-002 is designed to be a daily flavored tablet 
given to dogs with the aim of extending lifespan and 
mitigating the decline in health and quality of life 
associated with aging. We believe it will accomplish this 
by addressing several aspects of the overall metabolic 
dysfunction that occurs with aging.
-> Read our high-level introduction to 
metabolic dysfunction.
There is already some compelling evidence that 
targeting metabolic dysfunction can extend healthspan 
and lifespan. Caloric restriction is a commonly used 
research intervention to improve metabolic health and 
extend lifespan in mammals from mice to primates. 
A landmark study found that calorically restricted 
Labrador Retrievers lived almost two years longer on 
average than dogs fed to a normal body condition.1 The 
calorie-restricted group also had significantly lower 
prevalence of common age-associated diseases, such 
as osteoarthritis and neoplasia.1,2
While caloric restriction itself is not a practical way to 
extend lifespan in pet dogs, this study showed that 
improving metabolic health can have a direct and 
significant impact on lifespan in dogs. We believe drugs 
will be a more targeted and pragmatic approach to 
achieving similar benefits. Our aim with LOY-002 is to 
preserve metabolic health, which we believe will delay 
the onset of age-associated disease and help dogs 
maintain better function and quality of life. 
The STAY study
This is a double-blinded, placebo-controlled efficacy 
study intended to assess the effect of LOY-002 on 
lifespan and healthspan in treated dogs. The STAY 
study will be conducted over four years in partnership 
with 55 veterinary clinics across the country. Roughly 
1,000 companion dogs 10 years and older and between 
14 and 179 pounds will participate. In December of 
2023, we enrolled the first dog in the STAY study, and 
we’re actively recruiting patients.
Over the span of STAY, we’ll collect extensive data on 
health, quality of life, and lifespan in dogs receiving 
LOY-002 and those receiving a placebo. The results 
of the study will be part of our application for full FDA 
approval for the drug for lifespan extension and will also 
be shared with veterinarians. 
Conditional approval
While conducting this unprecedented canine lifespan 
study, we’re also pursuing conditional approval for 
LOY-002 based on existing efficacy, safety, and 
manufacturing data. 
The FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine’s expanded 
conditional approval pathway is meant for animal drugs 
that address an unmet medical need and require long 
or complex studies to complete the collection of the 
effectiveness data needed for full approval. Conditional 
approval has the same strict safety and manufacturing 
quality requirements as full approval, but it is a way 
to make needed drugs available to veterinarians more 
rapidly based on evidence showing a Reasonable 
Expectation of Effectiveness (RXE). RXE can be 
supported by evidence from various sources, including 
the scientific literature and pre-clinical or pilot studies, 
which are often smaller and shorter than trials like the 
STAY study. 
Loyal is committed to following the rigorous scientific 
and manufacturing standards set by the FDA, and 
product timelines will depend on our ongoing work 
with the agency to meet those standards. However, 
if the FDA grants conditional approval for LOY-002, 
veterinarians may be able to prescribe the drug as soon 
as 2025 while the STAY study continues to gather the 
data required for full approval. 
Safety
Because LOY-002 is part of a preventive medicine 
approach to aging and not a treatment for one specific 
disease, we consider safety to be of the utmost 
importance. While even serious side effects may be 
LOY-002
Lifespan extension for dogs age 10 or older and weighing at least 14 lb

Safety (cont.)
tolerable with a medication intended to treat a severe or 
life-threatening disease, preventive treatments such as 
LOY-002 should be as safe as possible.
We have extensive evidence from safety studies of 
the active ingredient in LOY-002. Over 400 dogs have 
been given the active ingredient in LOY-002 in multiple 
laboratory studies lasting from four weeks to a full year. 
This data has supported further development of the  
drug, and we’ve submitted it to the FDA. This includes 
studies at doses much higher than will be used in dogs 
treated with LOY-002. We have data from a 3-month 
pilot clinical trial with LOY-002 tablets where there 
were no clinically significant adverse effects. We are 
also running a 6-month study to assess the safety 
of LOY-002 tablets at up to five times the expected 
prescription dose. 
LOY-002 (cont.)
Lifespan extension for dogs age 10 or older and weighing at least 14 lb

Mechanism of action
LOY-001 and LOY-003 both address the premature 
morbidity and mortality of large-breed dogs. LOY–001 
will be an injectable administered by veterinarians 
every three to six months. LOY-003 will be a daily 
pill developed through our partnership with human 
biopharma company Crinetics Pharmaceuticals.
It is well-known that body size and lifespan are related 
in dogs and that larger dogs often have substantially 
shorter lifespans than smaller dogs. Larger body size 
is predominantly determined by the levels of certain 
hormones during development, including growth 
hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). 
However, these hormones have effects on metabolism 
other than stimulating growth. 
There is extensive evidence in many species, including 
dogs, showing a correlation between high IGF-1 levels 
and shorter lifespan, and this is considered one of the 
core pathways of aging.3 We believe that sustained 
higher levels of GH and IGF-1 in larger dogs are 
partly responsible for shorter lifespan and the earlier 
development of age-associated disease and disability. 
If we are correct, then LOY-001 and LOY-003 will extend 
lifespan in part by reducing IGF-1 levels and delaying 
the onset of age-associated metabolic dysfunction 
and disease. These drugs will be administered only to 
skeletally mature dogs, not puppies, so they will not 
affect adult body size.
 
Working toward FDA approval
As with LOY-002, we are planning to seek full approval 
for LOY-001, which includes conducting a large, long-
term efficacy trial similar to the STAY study. We hope 
to begin this study in 2025. We do not yet have clinical 
study plans or timelines to announce for LOY-003.
We are also seeking conditional approval for these 
drugs to address the unmet need of early mortality in 
large dogs due to age-associated disease. Late last 
year, the FDA accepted the technical effectiveness 
portion of our conditional approval application, 
determining that we had met the criteria for RXE. We 
believe this to be the FDA’s first-ever formal acceptance 
that a drug can be developed and approved to extend 
lifespan. This is only one of several elements in seeking 
conditional approval, but it is an important milestone.
If the FDA grants conditional approval for LOY-001, 
veterinarians may be able to prescribe the drug as 
soon as 2026. As always, these timelines will depend 
on our ongoing work to meet the rigorous scientific and 
manufacturing standards set by the FDA.
Safety
Both LOY-001 and LOY-003 are in early-stage 
development, and safety data is being gathered for 
both of these drugs. As with LOY-002, continued 
development of these products and potential FDA 
approval will require equally robust evidence ensuring 
safety as well as efficacy.
LOY-001 and LOY-003
Lifespan extension for dogs age 7 or older and weighing at least 40 lb

What are the potential benefits of your drugs?
The goal of all our programs is to develop  
FDA-approved drugs that extend healthy lifespan 
in dogs. By targeting specific pathways that lead to 
metabolic dysfunction, we believe we can delay  
age-associated disease and disability and give 
companion dogs substantially more time with good 
health, physical function, and quality of life. The STAY 
study and our other ambitious clinical trials will provide 
much more detail about the impacts of our drugs on 
health and lifespan.
What are the active pharmaceutical ingredients 
in your drugs?
Because our products are still in development, the 
drugs and their exact mechanisms of action necessarily 
remain confidential. We’ll release these details — along 
with safety and efficacy data — as we get closer to 
launching each product.
Do your drugs treat specific cancers or other 
age-related diseases?
Our goal is to develop medications that preserve health 
and broadly delay or prevent age-associated disease 
rather than focusing on treating specific diseases after 
they have already developed.
Do dogs need to be healthy when taking  
your drugs?
We expect dogs with many pre-existing conditions will 
be able to take our drugs and benefit from them, but 
any specific guidelines will be based on the results of 
our clinical and safety studies.
What about younger or smaller dogs?
We expect to support the following populations  
with our drugs:
-> For LOY-001 and LOY-003, dogs 7 years and older  
    and at least 40 pounds
-> For LOY-002, dogs 10 years and older and between  
    14 and 179 pounds
Clinical studies are designed to measure effectiveness 
among a target population, and for our lifespan 
extension drugs, this means choosing a population 
that’s most likely to benefit over the duration of our 
clinical studies. If approved, our drugs will be intended 
for use in the same populations studied in the clinical 
efficacy trials.
Our goal is to help as many dogs as possible, and we 
hope to pursue additional research to expand access to 
a broader population in the future.
Why develop both an injection and daily pill to 
treat overexpression of growth hormone in 
large dogs?
Our goal is to offer a range of options to suit the needs 
of veterinarians and dog owners. 
An injectable formulation offers convenience and 
improved compliance, while a daily pill may be preferred 
by some owners.
What about cats?
We love them too, but don’t currently have any plans to 
develop therapies for cats.
Sources
1 Lawler DF, Larson BT, Ballam JM, Smith GK, Biery DN, Evans RH, Greeley EH, Segre M, Stowe HD, Kealy RD. Diet restriction and ageing in the dog: 
major observations over two decades. Br J Nutr. 2008 Apr;99(4):793-805. doi: 10.1017/S0007114507871686. Epub 2007 Dec 6. Erratum in: Br J Nutr. 
2009 Apr;101(7):1112. PMID: 18062831.
2 Kealy, R.D., Lawler, D.F., Ballam, J.M., Lust, G., Smith, G.K., Biery, D.N., & Olsson, S.E. (1997). Five-year longitudinal study on limited food consumption 
and development of osteoarthritis in coxofemoral joints of dogs. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, 210(2), 222-225.
3 López-Otín C, Blasco MA, Partridge L, Serrano M, Kroemer G. Hallmarks of aging: An expanding universe. Cell. 2023 Jan 19;186(2):243-278. 
doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2022.11.001. Epub 2023 Jan 3. PMID: 36599349.
Loyal product brief for veterinarians — August 2024
Q&A