Loyal | For dog owners 
 Skip to main content Big news for big dogs! LOY-003 hits key FDA milestone. Read more → 
 The first longevity drugs for your dog 

 Mae
 Age 15

 Take that, aging.
 The effects of aging are often accepted as a fact of life. As your dog gets older, their quality of life declines and they’re more likely to develop chronic diseases. We challenge the notion that nothing can be done about this.

 Peeper
 Daughter | age 3 

 Ren
 Mom | age 8 

 Eva
 Grandma | age 13 

 How aging affects dogs
 You notice changes in your older dog’s behavior. Energy levels decrease, enthusiasm declines, and they walk more stiffly or can’t see as well. They may develop chronic health problems — like arthritis, kidney disease, or heart disease. These are just a few of the ways aging manifests in our dogs.
 Explore signs of aging 

 We’re pursuing FDA approval* for the first ever longevity drugs to address the collective impact of aging in your dog and to give your dog a longer, healthier life.
 *FDA approval not guaranteed

 A pill to give your dog more healthy years

 LOY-002 is our drug for senior dogs , a daily pill intended to help dogs of nearly every size live a longer, healthier life.*
 As your dog gets older, their metabolic health declines, driven in part by higher insulin levels and insulin resistance. These changes increase their risk of developing age-associated diseases and decrease quality of life. LOY-002 is intended for dogs aged 10 and older and weighing at least 14 lb. It aims to extend healthy lifespan by improving insulin sensitivity and lowering insulin, giving you and your dog more good years together.
 As of December 2025, LOY-002 has completed two of the three major requirements needed for FDA conditional approval: safety and efficacy. These acceptances mean the FDA agrees that the drug is likely to be effective and safe when used as intended.
 *FDA approval not guaranteed
 Dive into metabolic dysfunction 

 Harper
 Age 11

 Drug availability
 We’re going through the rigorous FDA approval process to get the drug to your dog as soon as possible.
 Efficacy
 Reasonable expectation of effectiveness (RXE)

 Safety
 Target animal safety (TAS)

 Manufacturing
 Chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (CMC)

 FDA Expanded conditional approval* (XCA)

 *FDA approval not guaranteed
 This is a simplified representation of the FDA approval pathway. To see the entire process, view the full roadmap.
 View full roadmap 

 Efficacy
 Reasonable expectation of effectiveness (RXE)

 Safety
 Target animal safety (TAS)

 Manufacturing
 Chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (CMC)

 FDA Expanded conditional approval* (XCA)

 View full roadmap *FDA approval not guaranteed
 This is a simplified representation of the FDA approval pathway. To see the entire process, view the full roadmap.

 More time for big dogs
 Our other drugs in development are for large and giant dogs . Large body size in dogs is correlated with shortened lifespan, so the larger a dog is, the shorter average lifespan that dog will have. LOY-001 is intended for dogs 7 years and older, weighing at least 40 lb, whereas LOY-003 is developed for dogs 5 years and older, weighing at least 60 lb. Both drugs target the over-expression of IGF-1, a growth hormone that we believe is associated with large dogs’ shorter lifespan relative to small dogs.
 LOY-001 is a prescription long-acting injection, while LOY-003 is a prescription daily pill. LOY-001 received a Reasonable Expectation for Effectiveness (RXE) technical section complete letter in 2023 — the FDA’s first-ever formal acceptance that a drug can be developed and approved to extend lifespan, and a historic milestone for Loyal. In 2026, LOY-003 completed its RXE section.
 *FDA approval not guaranteed

 Akila
 Age 7

 Committed to your dog’s safety 
 Our drugs are preventive in nature. While even serious side-effects may be tolerable with a medication intended to treat a severe or life-threatening disease, preventive treatments should be as safe as possible.
 Our dog longevity drugs are all being developed under the FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine’s expanded conditional approval (XCA) pathway. This approach is designed to get the drug to you as soon as possible, with the same safety and manufacturing quality standards as a fully approved drug. Read more about what XCA means for Loyal’s products.
 Learn about FDA conditional approval 
 Melody
 Age 12

 Safety is important for new drugs in any species, and dogs are no exception. The FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) has guidelines around required safety studies, including evaluating the drug at doses higher than your dog would receive and also in dogs over long periods of time.
 In December 2025, the CVM accepted LOY-002’s Target Animal Safety (TAS) submission, meaning the agency agrees that the data supports the drug’s safety for its intended use.
 The TAS package included a standard safety study (conducted at 1x, 3x, and 5x) that observed no clinically significant adverse events. We also shared additional field safety data from 400 senior companion dogs enrolled in the STAY study. We’ll be able to share more data as we get closer to launch.
 As our other drug programs advance through the FDA approval process, we’ll be able to share more information about their safety and efficacy as well.

 Emmy
 Age 4

 More
 walks
 walks play fetch days walks 

 We’re a community of vets, scientists, and dog lovers 

 We understand how special the dog-human bond is, and we’re committed to supporting this relationship. We have a deep respect for the vet community and their role in supporting the dogs we love and their owners.
 Meet our team 

 Resources for you and your aging dog
 Recognize signs of your aging dog

 Learn more 
 What you can do now to slow your dog’s aging

 Learn more 
 Resources for grieving dog owners

 Coming soon 

 Q&A
 What is a “longevity drug”?
 A “longevity drug” is a new concept. Currently, medicines on the market target disease after symptoms have already appeared. Our approach is preventive — we aim to address the underlying causes of disease before they even start to appear. 

 For example, when a dog gets old, they may be diagnosed with arthritis. We call this the binary, 0 to 1, approach. The reality is, the dog’s health was likely already declining before the point that the disease started to show and present itself as arthritis. This is the aim of a “longevity drug”: to target the cause of the diseases before they get severe enough to diagnose. 

 If dogs are living longer, are you just extending their number of frail days towards the end of life?
 Quality of life as a dog ages is just as important as the amount of time they have. Our goal is to increase the amount of healthy years your dog lives. 

 What if my dog doesn’t qualify for the drug?
 We expect to support the following populations with our drugs: 
 For senior dogs 
 For LOY-002: dogs 10 years and older and weighing at least 14 lb 

 For large and giant dogs 
 For LOY-001: dogs 7 years and older and weighing at least 40 lb 

 For LOY-003: dogs 5 years and older and weighing at least 60 lb 

 When we designed our four-year clinical study for LOY-002 (which is already longer than typical), we chose to target 10+ year dogs to balance comprehensive research with speed. If we included younger dogs in the study, we would have had to run the study for longer than four years to show lifespan extension, delaying the full approval for more years. We hope to demonstrate our drugs' efficacy on younger dogs in additional studies to expand eligibility. 

 What safety information can you share?
 Safety is our first priority at Loyal, and we strongly believe that if our product is unsafe, it shouldn’t go to market. 
 In December 2025, the FDA accepted LOY-002’s Target Animal Safety (TAS) submission, which included data from several studies. The FDA determined in its review that the data supports the drug’s safety for its intended use.  
 We’re pursuing the same high standard for LOY-001 and LOY-003, our other drugs in development, and will share information as these programs progress. 
 Throughout the approval process, all safety data is submitted to the FDA for review, which has supported continued development of our product. We’ll be able to share this data as we get closer to launch, and we’ll disclose any side effects seen in any of our studies that are associated with our drugs. 
 See our safety section for more information . 

 What’s the difference between a supplement and an FDA-approved drug?
 Supplements are not held to the same standard of rigorous safety and effectiveness screening, independent analysis, and regulation as drugs approved by the FDA. 
 Unlike drugs, supplements are often not monitored and their manufacturers are not required to run studies to show that their products work. If they do run safety studies, the research may not be independently verified. 
 On the FDA website, they write “The benefit of the FDA’s drug approval process is the assurance that an approved animal drug is safe, effective, and high-quality.” 

 Harper
 Age 11

 Melody
 Age 12

 Chase
 Age 12

 Milo
 Age 10